README.md, before:

# freetar - an open source alternative front-end to ultimate-guitar.com

This is like [Invidious](https://invidious.io/) but only for [Ultimate Guitar](https://www.ultimate-guitar.com/).  

## Instances
- https://freetar.de
- https://freetar.habedieeh.re
- https://tabs.adast.dk

## Features
- no ads, popups, AI, blockchain. Just a simple design
- search for tabs and view them
- save your favorite chords as favs (everything is stored in session storage (not send to the server), no account needed)
- dark mode
- auto scroll
- useful for printing chords
- show chords


## How to use it
After successfull installation, there is an executable called `freetar` in the PATH. Execute it without parameters and it listens on 0.0.0.0:22000.  


**PyPi**  
Package: https://pypi.org/project/freetar/

```
pip install freetar
```

**Docker**  
Image: https://hub.docker.com/r/kmille2/freetar  
Port: 22000

```
sudo docker pull kmille2/freetar
sudo docker run -p 127.0.0.1:22000:22000 kmille2/freetar
```


### Dev environment
You need [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/). Then:
```
poetry install
vim freetar/*.py
poetry run python freetar/backend.py
Visit localhost:22000 in browser

# static files: freetar/static/*
# html templates: freetar/templates/*
poetry run freetar
```

## Future work

- ~~show chords~~
- improve UX on mobile devices
- on smartphones: prevent lock screen
- ~~share chords (qr code)?~~ (done by #12 with export/import functionality)
- save favs encrypted server side?
- Browser Extension like [Invidious Redirection](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/invidious-redirection/)

Commit message:

Enable Tor support
When env FREETAR_ENABLE_TOR=1 is set, use socks5://localhost:9050 proxy
when sending requests to UG. Workaround, as UG started to block ips (403
cloudflare).

README.md, after:

# freetar - an open source alternative front-end to ultimate-guitar.com

This is like [Invidious](https://invidious.io/) but only for [Ultimate Guitar](https://www.ultimate-guitar.com/).  

**UPDATE 22.10.2023:** As ultimate-guitar.com started to block (some? my? server?) ip addresses it's now possible to send requests to UG over Tor (socks5 proxy listening on `localhost:9050`). This feature can be enabled when environment variable `FREETAR_ENABLE_TOR=1` is set. Supported since Freetar version 0.10.0.

## Instances
- https://freetar.de
- https://freetar.habedieeh.re
- https://tabs.adast.dk

## Features
- no ads, popups, AI, blockchain. Just a simple design
- search for tabs and view them
- save your favorite chords as favs (everything is stored in session storage (not send to the server), no account needed)
- dark mode
- auto scroll
- useful for printing chords
- show chords


## How to use it
After successfull installation, there is an executable called `freetar` in the PATH. Execute it without parameters and it listens on 0.0.0.0:22000.  


**PyPi**  
Package: https://pypi.org/project/freetar/

```
pip install freetar
```

**Docker**  
Image: https://hub.docker.com/r/kmille2/freetar  
Port: 22000

```
sudo docker pull kmille2/freetar
sudo docker run -p 127.0.0.1:22000:22000 kmille2/freetar
```


### Dev environment
You need [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/). Then:
```
poetry install
vim freetar/*.py
poetry run python freetar/backend.py
Visit localhost:22000 in browser

# static files: freetar/static/*
# html templates: freetar/templates/*
poetry run freetar
```

## Future work

- ~~show chords~~
- improve UX on mobile devices
- on smartphones: prevent lock screen
- ~~share chords (qr code)?~~ (done by #12 with export/import functionality)
- save favs encrypted server side?
- Browser Extension like [Invidious Redirection](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/invidious-redirection/)
